---
layout: post
title: Somewhere New
description: testtttt
---

I keep beating myself up over not keeping proper logs during my last year at the clinic, and now I can only think of how I'd probably be in a better spot if I had only written a log last night. I think I need to start now.

I don't have recollections of the morning, or afternoon, but remember walking along the beach at evening time.

I'm somewhere completely new, with two suns, but I have no idea of anything else. I've never experienced amnesia before, but I've seen the signs and can't say I think this a similar instance. When I came to consciousness, I was walking along a beach, with a purpose. That truly doesn't fit the bill.

I also encountered two strangers who also had similar symptoms. They came from different directions, and had similar stories of "amnesia". Without knowledge of why we were here, or where we were, we decided to stick together.

One was a large woman, not dissimilar to a lizardman. Her entire body was humanoid but covered in copper plates and scales, and a pair of what I suspect to be vestigial wings hang from her back. If she can fly, she has not demonstrated such an ability, nor moved them in a way that indicates she has full control over them. Her name is Luisa.

The other was a shorter fellow with an odd shaped head, a gnome. He was a thoughtful fellow, and a powerful magician. He called himself Noggin.

We travelled a while following a set of signs. Ruled out a nearby castle, as we suspected they may not be eager to harbor a set of mysterious strangers. The woods felt like a better call.

Unfortunately, the spot we initially picked for our camp had an odd cornfield running through it, covered in rust. As we discussed the strange phenomenon, a group of soldiers stumbled across our group. We were able to successfully hide, but my bird and, by extension, all my clothes and tools were left behind. Fortunately, the gnome cast a flaculence spell on the bird to discourage the soldiers from taking it for dinner, and we escaped unscathed.

We wonder now if we should have gone to the castle, or perhaps talked with some of the men from the soldier's camp. We've found a new location for camp where things seem safe, but we need answers and some proper civilization.

For tonight though, it is the three of us. With luck, perhaps we will recall more in the morning.


