---
layout: post
title: Spiders
description: A series of explanations and events
---

After a minor altercation (where a child may have wound up thrown into a river, through accidental means, and promptly rescued and dried off afterwards), we were able to head into the city of the lightless. The entire city was situated underground, lit by fungal growths.

Within the city, we sought out a place to stay the night before we could get our bearings. We found room at a local tavern that also boasted a stable full of spiders.

These spiders appeared to be giant black widows, though with a far less venomous poison. They were being kept like cattle for their means to produce sweet, edible silk, nutritious meat, and secrete a venom with a depressant effect, not dissimilar to wine (save for the taste).

The stableowner was distraught about one of her spiders though, a creature that had suddenly become skittish and was no longer producing silk. We were able to assist in the manner, and found that an object had become caught in the creature's throat, or closest organ thereof.

Dislodging the object was carried out by first sedating the spider with 50ml of morphine, then rolling the creature onto its back and cutting open the throat. The object was then removed and the spider's flesh was reknit with the assistance of healing magic, as well as the Mending spell for repairing cracks to the carapace. 

Mending is an interesting, and useful, skill to have picked up. Like many cantrips, it's more of a collection of spells with similar effect, rather than something you'd learn directly out of a spellbook. Regardless, it's often times one of the first spells a young magician will learn, whether to clean up their own mess or that of another.

I, personally, was taught Mending from an older magician with whom I was washing dishes with at a tavern. I had dropped a plate and was concerned about adding further to my debt owned to the establishment, when it was repaired before my very eyes. The gentleman taught me the gist of the spell for repairing porcelain, and we spent most of the rest of our time together talking about how to extend and augment the properties of mending to other materials.

It's been invaluable, so far. Whatever cannot be healed through clerical spells, can often be repaired through Mending. It saves on the number of glass vials, clothing, bandages, and other general items that may otherwise show wear and tear. Quite frankly, I may consider it to be one of the most magnificent contributions of magic to the greater world, though to magicians the spell is written off as an elementary trick.

Regardless, with the spider healed the tavern owner offered us her thanks, as well as alarm at the object which caused the blockage. I cannot in good faith write down what the object was… I can only say that knowing what we know about it, it should not have been in that place, nor should it necessarily be in our possession. I grilled the stablekeeper later in the night for the truth on how it ended up in that place, and I believe it to be truth that they know nothing.

It disturbs me greatly to have possession of an unknown object such as this now. I can't ignore the situation we are in, but neither can I record it.

On a brighter note, we also had a chance to speak with the head of the town, and he sent us on our way to a place I believe they called RIAWAT, on a scouting mission for the Lightless. The place seems to be a haven of some sort for their kind, though they know little about it and thus cannot simply uproot and move there. We'll set out and start trekking a path between here and the far north, then report back.

From our initial estimates, it may be a long journey, but we've been promised supplies. We've gotten the impression that we are not the only group to have been asked to make this journey, only the latest, but I don't think Luisa or Noggin care all too much about it.

It's a strange thing to commit to such a long trip, for strangers who we barely know, but we have little plans otherwise. Seek not wanderlust, and it will find you regardless.
