---
layout: post
title: Mole Travel
description: A series of explanations and events
---

I'm feeling much better today.

We found out what happened to the missing soldier in the morning. I recognized a man in the marketplace, the well-dressed soldier.

Though we confronted him, we weren't able to come to much of an understanding. His name was Halfdane, and he was difficult. An information broker, and unpleasant. The less that is said about him, the better.

Once he got slippery with words, I used a Zone of Truth spell to try to keep him honest. This backfired in an interesting way.

For starters, he detected the spell immediately. I shouldn't have been too surprised, though I wish I could do that myself. I've learned how to use magic to identify other magic around me, but it's an active action I must take. This seemed passive. I'm not sure if I've ever heard of such an ability from other magician, though I've heard rumor of creatures who can feel magic innately.

At the end of our fruitless conversation, he also managed to completely dispel my Zone of Truth. That was… fascinating. I've never seen a countermeasure to a spell before. It felt effortless. I need to learn how to do it, and I need to not learn it from him.

I suspect him to be some sort of creature or god profecient in magic, though maybe he's just a powerful magician amusing us with parlor tricks. In any case, he's more the problem of the lightless town than he is ours. I'm not sure how they'll deal with him, but I hope he doesn't bring them ruin.

I slipped a message to the Oni about our encounter with Halfdane, just in case. After that though, we finally set out on our way north.

We travelled via mole, as we had planned to do yesterday. The buggers are faster than they look. We made it a good few hours down the tunnels though before it started losing its way, and becoming agitated. I guess we were far from its home, and deep in the territory of some enemies.

We attempted to flee from some patrols lingering around the tunnels (at the mole's discretion, of course. We still have little sense for who is friend and who is foe, but the mole has concrete thoughts on this matter). They were alerted to our presence though, and raised an alarm through some intercom system. A peppery gas filled the tunnels that had no adverse effects on me and my party, but upset the mole greatly.

The good news was that we were not caught by the patrols. The bad news is that our mole fell into a pit that was several stories deep. I'd record how deep it was, except at some point we stopped being able to see the top of the hole, or even the walls around us. I know featherfalling is a fairly common spell for young magicians to learn, but it still scares the hell out of me to be falling for so long and simply… stop at the bottom.

And the bottom was bad, mind you. Vicera and sludge, far as we could tell. It was pitch-black, a true cave darkness that made you think your eyes were closed. We knew there were creatures all around us too, chittering and scraping about. Noggin and I thought to blind them, and attempted to make light in the area, but a voice called out for us to douse our spells and we were in no state to object. The quick glimpse we got of the creatures was… enough to put our imagination to work. I do not wish to describe them entirely, but can assure you that they were likely human at some point, and that machinery had been incorperated into their flesh.

The voice was that of a girl, but she moved with a sound like heavy iron scraping about. She asked us what we were doing down here, and we assured her that we would like to leave, but had no means to do so. With some talk though, she offered to take the reins of our dear mole and lead us to the tunnels back to the surface, so long as we didn't aggravate the creatures with light.

We agreed and thanked Fever, our guide, for being so genial and helping us leave. We kept conversation the way through, where we learned Fever had been living down here for sixty or so years, and had no intention of leaving. She did, however, ask if we could bring a message from her to her mother, Blake-Genevieve, who lives out in the far West. I've got the letter in my pack.

Fever led us faithfully through the underground, and helped clear a great obstacle along the way with a powerful blast of some sort. When I asked her about it, she said it was something closer akin to science than magic, which, while still interesting, loses a bit of its intrigue. That's alright though, Fever didn't seem to have much desire for us to pry into her existence.

We made our way out of that horrid place and thanked Fever for her help. I do hope the girl ends up in a better state next time we see her. At the very least, we will try to deliver her letter.
