---
layout: post
title: The Church
description: A series of explanations and events
---

We arrived in the early night. The church welcomed us in with open arms, despite many of these refugees being persecuted by their own kind.

The subcardinal of the church was quick to offer food, drink, and shelter to us and the refugees. We plan to leave them in his care. Hopefully a few days of recovery will help these people get to where they need to go.

The subcardinal did, however, mention that there was an ill traveler who was also lodging in the church.

With the subcardinal's blessing, I was given permission to oversee the treatment of the strangers. She appeared to be an elven woman, with four large, shackle-like mechanisms attached to her limbs. Within each shackle lie several bees in glass jars: a common imagery we have found associated with the church of Dagatar, and the bio-mech machines that stem from its people.

The woman herself had no notable wounds nor disease, but it was clear the shackles were ailing her and draining her strength. The subcardinal said she had fallen unconscious and remained unconscious since her arrival.

Without any better lead, I attempted the removal of the shackles. The subcardinal and I conferred and discussed methods of removal, and ultimately decided that removal by force would be a last resort.

Instead, I spent a bit of time fiddling with the shackles. They were somewhere between machine and the arcane, far beyond anything I could make sense of. Nevertheless, given some time and idle hands, I was able to find a winning combination to activate the cuffs to unlock and remove themselves from the woman.

The flesh beneath was necrotized, and had to be healed immediately. It had been completely hidden by the shackle, and inaccessible until removed. Upon inspecting the injury, I was assured that this ailment was likely magical in nature, and that I would know very little of how to proceed from here. I requested Noggin's help in making sense of the situation, and he took and interest in the discarded shackle, studying it while I freed the woman of the remaining shackles.

All were removed and the flesh beneath healed as far as my abilities would allow with simple healing magics. It appeared as though we were able to reverse most if not all of the ill effects of the shackles, though I harbored fear that the wounds went deeper than what I could ascertain.

Noggin helped in deciphering that the shackles had something to do with amplification or suppression, though in what exactly we don't have a clear picture.

The woman herself regained consciousness briefly in the early morning: panicked, but quickly calmed by the realization the shackles had been removed. She expressed no interest in keeping the shackles, nor displeasure at us removing them from her presence.

I will continue to monitor for the remainder of the night, but things are pointing towards a proper recovery for the woman. I'm sure Noggin will find great interest in those shackles, and share with me any more of his findings.
