---
layout: post
title: Lights & Lightless
description: A series of explanations and events
---

Our sleep was interrupted during the second shift.

An ape-like creature attempted to approach the camp in the night, but was scared off similar to how one would scare a bear: waving arms, shouting, the like. I cannot say I got a good look at it, but what I did see… I did not like.

Thankfully, we did not see any more creatures for the rest of the night.

We took shelter in some of the caves to rest in the morning. Unfortunately Luisa fell into a chute within the cave, and became covered in Giant Star-Nosed Mole Mucus, which appears to have acidic properties. After complaining about irritation on the skin, she was advised to remove the stained clothes and bathe in the nearby waterfall, after which her affliction seemed cured.

Unfortunately, she also consumed a vial of calamine ointment orally. It appears to have not disturbed her much, which disturbs me greatly. Her skin, however, is fine. It appears that dragonborn of her type have a resistance to acid, and the wounds shown were chaffing caused by her armor.

Dragonborn appear to have dubious connections to Dragons, though the elaboration on that front was not fruitful. She does, in my opinion, look more like a dragon than lizard.

We approached the castle, as we overheard the night prior that the soldiers we encountered were trying to find and murder some "lightless" within. The soldiers we stumbled across were jovial and good-natured, wanting to spar with Luisa before giving us a rundown of where we were and what we were doing.

Luisa thoroughly beat the guard, and I administered minor care afterwards. 

His friend told us we were on the trial of the gods. I took a few notes, though I can't say I understood most of what he talked about.
* They claim there are 4 gods, that are "real" and "walk"
* The gods cannot openly war against each other, so instead they pick peons to perform great feats for them
* People who are picked for the role show up in this land and serve their god
* Locals to the land and other groups are called "lightless", and are considered lesser. They can supposedly see the light and affiliation of others.
* Each god has a domain associated, a cardinal direction, and a color of light.
* The domain we are in now, South, is ruled by a retired war god. The rust we've seen all over is supposedly his skin. These people embrace freedom, with the phrase "Do As You Will."
* There's a caravan town in this domain somewhere, sounded like a large settlement

With the guard's helpful information, we were able to piece together a general idea of where we had come from, and why we were here… at least by the logic believed by the guard. It's worth noting here that all that which written above is difficult to prove, and should not be taken as absolute truth.

Regardless, I have no stronger explanation at to how I got here, so it must be the theory I cling to until a better one presents itself. I hope it does soon.

Despite the helpfulness of the guard, we did not wish to help these people murder the "lightless" inside the facility.

Instead, we found an infiltration point, unpacked our mount, and snuck into the castle the guards were investigating.

In an attempt to scatter the troops, we tried the trick again with the illusory flatulence, except… on one of the guards. To our horror though, it turns out the tunnel to where the "lightless" were hiding was in fact in the latrine. The guards were not pleased with this, and neither were we.

I attempted a spell at this point, which I learned on my own a few months ago. I had been talking with a magician after hours, and he had mentioned that most magicians had at least some degree of mind manipulation, in the form of a spell broadly defined as "Suggestion".

"Suggestion" is more category, than concrete spell, it seems. It requires a user's concentration, and an ability to guage not only the general deposition of a target, but also what they might already be inclined to do. "Suggestion" uses magic from the mage to suggest a specific action for the target to take, but it is best to make such a suggestion believable. I was told that the spell can be nearly indistinguishable from one's own thoughts, so long as the request made is not broken too early, nor too far off from what the target would normally do. Otherwise, your cover is broken the moment someone smells something fishy.

Truth be told, I've cast it more than I'd care to admit after I learned it. It saves on time, if nothing else. Arguing back and forth with people can add up, and "Suggestion" can help people reach conclusions they were already going to go do. I admit to being a hair on the paranoid side about thinking of people using it on myself, but the effects are temporary. It seems difficult and unwieldy to ever suggest someone feel a specific way for too long. 

I only made the troll leader of the group feel above this entire investigation. They were already distinct from the group, and uninterested in the latrine tour. With a small "Suggestion", they left the horde behind, leaving us free to act.

The others were not dissuaded from their task, however, and entered the tunnels beneath the latrine in pursuit of the "lightless". We followed just a few moments behind, hoping to catch them offguard in the tunnels. However, misfortune took them first.
	
A gun, or rather, a gun the size of a cannon, took out those men before we could react. My attempts to administer care were negated by the fist-sized punchout of flesh each man had acquired through their torso. Thankfully, the owner of the firearm was a reasonable man who was protecting the fair "lightless" in the city beyond. He took no quarrel with us, and instead fed us and allowed us passage through his land.

The man was in fact, an Oni, a race I had only seen depictions of recently. They remind me of depictions of the Catholic Krampus, with large bodies, red skin, and horns. They seem distantly related to trolls, though I'm not sure I would classify them anywhere near each other having seen two within the span of a few minutes.

We agreed to reach out to the Oni's squadmates should we come across them. A vixen of some sort, one that was a troublemaker, and one that was described similar to a ghost. I carry a slug from the Oni that he asked me to present to them.

As for what we were to do next though… well, we all agreed the "lightless" were in good hands with the Oni nearby. He seemed a stalwart protector of the people, and spoke openly of the fifth god that the guards would not speak of. He recommended we visit the "lightless" in the city beyond, and find our way from there.

It seems good advice. Besides, I'd have to imagine that climbing down a latrine must be easier than climbing up one.
