---
layout: post
title: Leaving
description: A series of explanations and events
---

I'm going to try to make this coherent, but I have a head wounds so some of this may not be accurate.

We planned to leave the lightless city today, though things got hairy rather fast.

The moles we saw at the surface ended up being our way out. It turns out the lightless use them as mounted creatures, similar to my old Axebeak. We met with a grizzled man on the edge of the city who lent us a creature to ride to the surface, but we never got the luxury.

Instead, we found a fight. The troll and his underlings from our first night in this land reappeared in the tunnels near the city, looking for blood. In retrospect, I know now that enticing the troll a few days back to investigate the mole hills instead of the latrine perhaps only bought us time, rather than shaping into a proper solution.

It gave us a chance to join in the slaughter, but that was stupid of course. We fought him and his party head on.

Most of the knights under the troll's command fell at Noggin's fire magic. The gnome is immensely powerful.

Luisa fought bravely as well. I swear, as the fight went on, she only became more powerful. Keeping her alive and healthy was my primary concern during the battle. I couldn't do much else, after all.

My healing magics are varied though, and becoming easier to use. I'm starting to understand which to use in each scenario, and am thankful for having branched into multiple disciplines of study. I still find magical healing to be- [a section here has been poorly erased].

Nevermind, I'll write it down later. I'd like to go to bed.

To make a long story short, I made the mistake of addressing the troll, and it took notice of me. It swung its massive club into my head and I lost consciousness.

I don't know exactly what injuries it inflicted upon me, I just remember hearing bones crunching. I woke up with blood running down my face and Luisa's own healing magics sizzling through my skull. I'm lucky she was there. I don't want to think about what that would have done to anyone back home.

From there, we whittled away at the Troll until the Oni from the city's borders showed up. Together we killed and repelled. The Troll opened and consumed of a familiar object I should not talk about. It… regenerated the damaged and necrotized muscles of the creature at an alarming rate, but not fast enough that it couldn't be outpaced. Whatever the Troll consumed, it inevitably consumed the corpse of the creature once we had beaten it into the dust.

 The Oni… used the mayor, somehow. I don't know how best to describe it, only that the mayor was clearly dead before the battle began, and was somehow… hooked up into the Oni. I don't understand, and have little patience for investigating at the moment. I did help perform burial rites on the mayor though, as well as the fallen party of the Troll.

One of the corpses I found though was just a suit of armor. I hope a coward fled the battle. I swear I want to cheer everytime a deserter just takes off. It's stupid not to.

It's still early, but I'm going to bed. I don't want to think. Maybe we'll actually leave tomorrow. I hope we do.