---
layout: post
title: Panacea
description: A series of explanations and events
---

We parted ways with the elves shortly into the morning. They gave gifts in return, however, all of which I currently have stored in my supplies.

Many of the elf's potions were antidotes, easily added to the stores of our medical kits. She had quite the collection to part with, and most seems to be well-labelled. I've added the full list, as well as the full contents of our medical supplies to an ordered list in the back of this journal. I hadn't anticipated our supply to grow so rapidly, or diminish in specifics (I'm missing several tranquilizers at this point), so it feels best to keep a running list.

We also received some strong healing potions, and elixirs of strength. The former, I've seen and used before, and can attest to their quality. The latter, I have no experience with nor eagerness to try. We shall see if/when they may become relevant.

Most importantly, we received some Panacea. Had it been coming from anyone other than the elf woman, I would have dismissed its importance, but… she's demonstrated considerable medical and magical knowledge. I have little doubt that what is sealed within this container is powerful, even if it may not be a proper cure-all.

Within the container, a small glass vial which has been hermetically sealed, is a small piece of what appears to jerky. A wiggling, clearly living, jerky.

During a small kerfuffle in which Luisa attempted to eat the substance, I briefly opened the container to get a better idea of what was inside. The panacea expanded and leaked out of the vial temporarily, dissipating and… burrowing through the ground. Only a small portion escaped, with the majority being completely sealed once more. The panacea had a very musty, sweet smell to it, but what it actually IS… I have no clue at present. I doubt I will have much time to dive into research proper until we finish this leg of the journey.

It will be useful in a pinch, but I would prefer to analyze and understand it properly, if we can find a way to do so.

Gifts aside, however, it was time to move on. After some deliberation, we decided to head further north, taking a route through the mountains. It's now taken us a day by foot to reach the base of the mountains, and it sounds as if it'll take a day to scale, to traverse, and yet another to descend.

The way will also be bitterly cold, so we'll be relying on Noggin to keep us warm throughout the journey. We've bundled up quite a bit in preparation, but we'll have to see how well that holds up.

We ultimately decided upon this pathway in hopes of encountering Yetis along the way. Gremm has reassured us that there are likely Yeti along this route, and that they would be powerful allies for any potential attack we may make on the blue keep. I'm inclined to hope for such a thing. The few allies we've made thus far have either been too weak to help our endeavors, or otherwise preoccupied. It would be ideal to find more allies to point in the directions of the numerous problems we've encountered in this land thus far.

We'll start the first leg of the journey in the morning. I hope all goes well.