---
layout: post
title: Swift
description: A series of explanations and events
---

I cannot make heads or tails of the previous page, and hope to someone they make sense.

The day has been thankfully uneventful, and we're well on our way further north via the coast.

We'd seen this city, formerly Last Gasp, on a map and had hoped to commandeer a vessel to cross the sea north. However, since it was a blue city, we didn't have too much hope going in that things would be as straightforward as booking passage.

When we arrived in the city, we found it in a state of chaos. Dagatar's prisoners, free from their captors, had evidentally overthrown the city. They seemed well organized, and devoted to making the best out of their newfound freedom by renovating and restoring the city.

We, however, did not know this upon arrival. Grem, skilled with summoning familiars, scouted ahead and found the shipyards for us. Noggin and I decided to join with her and make a sprint across the city, hoping to stay undetected, and unmoor one of the boats from the harbor where they appeared unused.

Concerns were raised, however, about finding the correct vessel for our size and making it seaworthy, since none of us had experience with sailing before. I was able to provide a bit of help in this regards.

I do not assume the role of a cleric. I am a medic, and use the terminology only because it is coloqoly appropriate most of the time.

However, I've met with enough clerics to learn that medicine and divine domains overlap more often than not within these worlds. Dabble enough with one, and you stumble into the other.

And, while I usually fail to distinguish between sorcerers and wizards, I do understand the difference between them. I am no sorcerer, I have no innate magic. I was a wizard, learning magic purely from extended study.

However, my magic is definitely easier in this realm than others. My magic feels different, and much more intuitive than before. There's a surprising fluidity to it.

There is also more to grasp at. Whereas before I had to learn magic from others, I can now discover pieces of it myself.

I actually discovered this first back when I travelled with Luisa and Noggin those first few days. It was a silly matter, but I've never been much of a cook. I took a stab at it, however, and made us a rather nice breakfast. I'm not sure why, but that surprised me immensely.

I later thought back on it and realized I had no recollection of how to cook, nor the dishes I had made that day. I still don't understand what I did. Whatever knowledge came over me in that moment, it left me immediately after.

I remembered feeling slightly ill, as I was cooking that morning. I was attempting to practice magic, and was burning mana, but no spell that I can recall clearly. I remember the light within me being the source of that ill effect, so I've come to suspect divine magics for my cooking prowess.

Not that it is limited to cooking, however. I'm not unfamiliar with this divine trait. I've never met another soul with the ability, but I read about it in a tome titled "Knowledge of the Ages". Clerics who used divinity in such a way were granted momentary knowledge of past clerics and their skillsets. A very fleeting, but very useful ability, much like communing with the dead but without the… communication aspect, I suppose.

In any case, I've hardly tested it since. I don't feel particularly well when using it, and if it IS tied to the light within me, I don't enjoy relying on Tazaam's knowledge.

However, it does make me quite good at figuring out boats.

We've taken control of a vessel that seems manageable, if a bit small, for our group. We should only have to be aboard for a few days, if things go well.

Each time I channeled the knowledge of ages, I attempted to write layman's terms on my newfound knowledge on the prior pages. Evidentally, I did a poor job, as I myself cannot understand them once the divine force leaves my mind. I'm hoping that sailing will go smoothly and I won't need to channel this power more than necessary, because it would be good to devote some of it to trying to translate my prior notes.

But the boat itself has been good. The party is hale and hearty, save for the dwarf who does not enjoy sea travel. We had a bit of a scuffle onboard with Grem attempting to get Noggin to clear her light, an ability which Noggin stressed he did not have.

Upon interrogation, I placed a zone of truth to make sure Noggin was not being compelled to lie. Instead, it was Grem who looked uncomfortable with the spell. I cannot say I blame her, I would not have liked such a thing sprung on myself unprovoked. I will try to avoid being so casual with that spell in the future.

Regardless, Noggin did, in fact, demonstrate the ability to remove one's light. Using a special dust he had, he was able to break the Purple god's grasp on Grem. I can't pretend to understand the process, nor understand anything visually about what occurred, but Grem seemed pleased with the result and Noggin seemed to think he may be able to reproduce the effect tomorrow. We'll see if he can remove Luisa's light next, and hopefully mine after.

Still no desire to sleep, however I have a bad headache from the boat knowledge. For once in my life, I'm looking forwards to the monotony of a dark nightwatch.

