---
layout: post
title: Riawat
description: A series of explanations and events
---

We've been in the city a few days now. It's a rather nice place to stay.

Riawat is a pretty large place, and has both good food and friendly people all around. The elders have covered our stay completely, and extended extreme generosity to our group. 

Everyone around the city has been very accommodating. It's very peaceful here. Their resources are limited, so far away from the mainland, but they're truly adapted to the space. I'm glad we came here for a time, it's truly a unique place. Luisa, Noggin, and I have pretty much just been travelling and camping since we arrived on this plane, and the only other cities we stopped in were the lightless outpost and Dagatar's city. One was bereft of hope, and the other bereft of vitality, so it's nice to be in a spot that seems to have their act together.

Luisa has commissioned some new armor, which she seems very excited for. They told us it'd take a few days to complete, so we've been killing time. I don't think anyone's upset by that though, we've been treated quite well. The blacksmith has even offered to throw in a few upgrades for the rest of our group. I get a new knife!

Dedrik and Noggin have been putting together possible routes and general supplies. Judging from the enthusiasm I hear from them arguing over matters, I don't feel I'm missing much from refraining from those talks.

Grem has been studying some of the murals around the city, she seems quite excited by the drawings of beasts on the wall. She said they are from a lot of different places, and sure enough I recognized a few creatures from my homeland. I wonder if anyone in the city is from the UK. I doubt I'd recognize them unless they were speaking English, and I suppose they'd probably not single me out either. Probably for the best.

I've mostly been spending my days at the local clinics, and nights at the libraries.

The healthcare here is okay. I've seen worse, but I've seen better as well. At first when I stopped by to volunteer, I suspected that they only let me in due to the celebrity status of my travelling companions. That… was certainly not the case. I was surprised to find most of their stations lacking proper staff, and inexperienced compared to most other facilities I've been to. 

I was able to travel around to most the facilities and help out a bit at each. I feel I ended up putting more of the science to use than the magic, but I'm glad both were helpful. I also copied over some of the notes about my current medical findings in this world into a short pamphlet for the clerics to peruse at their leisure. I'm sure it'll be pedantic in some spots, but I'm sure things like the Panacea are likely rare and undocumented in this world. Hopefully this changes that.

The libraries, on the other hand, were almost too vast for me to begin searching through. The city has an amalgamation of literature from not only every other settlement, but several other realms. I swear I found an copy of the honest to god Holy Bible translated into Infernal, but no English texts I came across were of any interest.

I didn't find anything on my own quarry, but did come across a few crime organizations we're likely to run into.

In the west, which is where we plan to land first, it seems the group distributing the Scarlet Whisper drug are the Trifold Rose Syndicate. The drug (Triberyl-Uranide) is grown on their plantations, and the faction holds immense sway over the entirety of the west. We'll need to deal with that drug as we get closer to the area. The syndicate appears to be made up of vampiric demons, which is… great. I'm interested in laying a trap for one of them to test my skills, but the description of their abilities is a bit offputting.

There's also some interesting talks of factions to the east. I was able to find a battle report regarding a failed attack against a slaver caravan. The religious zealotry of the writer makes me less than inclined to believe that the Laborers are a people with whom I'll get along well with. They included the mark of their foe: a hound's head. Might be worth a talk with those attackers, should we encounter them in the east, and see if their morals are any better.

No new spells acquired here. I looked for magehand manuals, and only found mocking accounts of how babes born attuned to magic often know it before their fifth birthday. I have a hunch due to the volcanic heat of the region that most of the texts here are fireproofed to some degree, but I would very much like to remove those accounts from the library with a bit of incendiary power.

But, I did find an interesting text on magic in Old Orkish, similar to what I found in the monastery. I like it quite a bit. The author, Kaantoka Murami, describes magic and spells to be catchall terms. The author's experience with magic seems to mirror my own, fascinated by how some things are considered simple by some magicians, and outlandishly difficult by others. They even denote the differences in common spells based on origin and execution, which I find rather fascinating.

I spent a long time with that book. I've transcribed a few interesting techniques in hopes to attempt them later, though the few that I tried out seemed to have no effect. Spell variations is a fascinating topic though. 

Most wizards I've talked with have had very strict guidelines for how spells are cast, and how they should be named and function. On the opposite side, most sorcerers I've spoken with can't even describe the process unless pressed. The clerics I've met with have also gone the route of standardization, so I'm excited to hear that there's some flexibility even within healing spells. I feel it'll take a lifetime to just learn the standard set, but imagine all that one could learn by travelling and gathering all the variations as well.

Quite honestly, it's made me anxious to begin travelling again. My heart sinks when I remember what we'll be up against in the coming months, but it's bolstered by the idea of growing stronger. I've kept up with my exercises from Luisa, and feel somewhat ready for what lies ahead.

We leave in the morning.
