---
layout: post
title: The Pond
description: A series of explanations and events
---

There's no reason to withhold information any longer, so I can clarify yesterday's events.

We had broken into the highest administration building in Dagatar's city, and left with high credentials and rations for our journey. We had hoped to go unnoticed, and that we would be able to leave the city without being caught.

Unfortunately, we were found and tried in the dead of night. Our mistake was not, in fact, how we had performed our heist, but rather a mistake we had made when we first entered the city. The orders Noggin had used to get us new credentials for the night belonged to a man who should have checked in at the gate before entering the city. Because we smuggled the orders in… the man we pretended to be never entered the city, and therefore should not have been lodging within.

The ambush they put us through was thorough. They barred off the exits and brought in six mechs to take us down. They  claimed that Dagatar himself wanted to see us to deal out our punishments. I'll be honest in saying that I didn't quite buy their story at first. Grem and I heckled the man sent to collect us, but his lackeys forced us down before we could put up any semblance of a fight. They hurt Luisa quite badly, and showed little interest in being anything but cruel towards our party.

We were brought back to the building we had infiltrated the day before, and brought all the way up to the top floor. There, in the middle of its hexagonal room, stood Dagatar.

I cannot recall being in the physical presence of a god before, but this was… underwhelming. This god was not like the one who cradles my homeworld. Dagatar was a many-bodied creature, a swarm of biology and machinations swirling around itself, but it was a finite thing. For as great, and as powerful as it appeared to be, it was also far less than it was promised to be.

Dagatar is the- [a line here has been erased]

Dagatar is one of the most powerful creatures I have laid eyes on. I did not fear it, because I knew I would not best it. Its commander, who had fetched us from our quarters, had labelled me an enemy greater than the others because of my light. I had no doubt in my mind after that encounter that, should Dagatar wish me dead, I would have no say in the matter. I stood before Dagatar, and knew death would reach me, and rob me.

However, one of the blue light members of our party, the dwarf Dedrick, sparred against Dagatar. He accused Dagatar of abandoning him, of expecting behaviour out of him but never guiding nor helping him since his arrival. Dedrick convinced Dagatar that he should be given the chance to prove himself and bring about the god's perfect idea of order. He somehow convinced Dagatar to allow him to duel its commander, and prove his loyalty.

But as the fight began, Noggin targeted Dagatar directly. I don't know what magic he casted but… at first Dagatar showed no signs of being affected. Then, the next moment, it was panicked and shrieking. I had never imagined a being such a Dagatar being capable of showing such fear. Noggin approached it, and fought it, and Dagatar screamed that something or someone had infiltrated his city. Whatever it saw in Noggin was something it knew would bring about its demise.

Dagatar was consumed. Whatever deity Noggin had channeled shone in a light we had never seen before, a deep, dark purple that differed far from the purple of Grem. A sigil of an eye shone about Noggin's head as he destroyed Dagatar, breaking down and eviserating the ruler of the region. Noggin later claimed he had never performed such a feat before in his life, and had no idea what it was or how it had come to be, and I believe him wholeheartedly. I cannot believe that Noggin was predisposted to the power he wielded that day consciously, though I will also admit that this was the first fight in which I ever saw Noggin run directly towards an enemy.

Dagatar flailed against the magic Noggin had, and used its final moments to attempt to "feed" upon its followers. 

This last act was a genocidal call against its own people. Dagatar forcibly ripped the light out of all its own, and attempted to consume it for itself. I cannot profess to know exactly what this means as of yet, and to what purpose it thought such an act would serve. All I can report is that Dagatar's city now lies empty.

Its people have been robbed of some vital spirit, leaving them catatonic or otherwise outright dead. Dagatar sacrificed the lives of all within its care to feul its final, futile moments. It showed them no mercy, spared neither young, nor old, and showed no discriminations between any sort of people amongst its own. It consumed them like a wave upon the shore, lapping at the grains of sand without any thought beyond pulling itself back into the greater sea and dragging sediment behind it.

I have repaired the bodies of those who were consumed, but they do not awaken. I have peered into their minds and found no capacity for thought. Dagatar has wiped all who loved it from this world.

And Dagatar is no more. It has been consumed, by whichever being worked through Noggin. We plan to stay the night within the city, for there is no more fear of the blue faction and their god striking at us again. There is no one left to make good on the blue's threats. Their machines are quiet, alongside their people.

The only living souls we found in the aftermath were Baal's contact, Hellen, who assisted us in collecting some information. The trolls who worked for the blues were also spared from the fate of their bosses, and worked to help organize rescue efforts after Grem paid them a few day's wages.

From the first moment I stepped into the city, I've had a looming dread over my head. I've been afraid of being discovered, of being hungry, of being trapped, there has never been a quiet or safe moment here. But this… this emptiness which Dagatar has brought… I damn the creatures for its selfishness and hubris to imagine its children as naught more than meat. I fear the other gods that may watch us even now, perhaps delighted by us removing a competitor from their field. Perhaps they will move to consume as Dagatar did, and our souls will be nothing but fuel for their pointless fires.

I can't get to sleep tonight. I'm reminded only of a conversation I had back on Earth.

I used to work alongside an older medic, a great man by the name of Jakab Hopper. He lived a long and storied life, and I entered in from schooling into his care. I was much younger, and looked up to him in nearly every regard. He did not disappoint.

Our wing was never filled, and we spent many hours passing time and speaking to one another. He always humored my questions, and answered them with a degree of honesty and wisdom I have failed to find in another.

I asked him about the Great War, and when he thought it would be over. He assured me it never would be. I had heard such things before, but I hadn't expected that answer from him. I wish he were here now, to transcribe the exact words he had used, but I will attempt to remember them best I can.

I asked him how come he thought the war wouldn't end.

He answered me that it would never end, same as it had never started. Men were never meant to act cruelly towards one another, and so very few had intention to. But, intention means little when toes get stepped on. One retaliation leads to another, and things spiral not into a circle of violence, but a ripple in a greater pond.

A man shoots another not because he wishes to kill him dead, but because its one step closer to him going home, and seeing his lover and his child. The next shot is the same, over and over again until either someone pulls him aside and tells him his wish is granted, or he's laying in the trench without a care in the world left. But the man who goes home, how long is it until some new irritation pricks his eye? Some new threat clouds his horizon, or some new abomination causes him to react?

I do not mean to compare Dagatar to a man, because I believe it to be far below the decency of the lowest of mortals I can name. But, Dagatar killed thousands of lives today because it felt threatened, and I cannot help but feel as though we contributed to that. I do not place these people on my companions, nor on myself, but I also regret the path that led to these events.

There's peace, but also fear. I cannot help but wonder what will happen the next time a threat crosses our path. Will people fear us, for what we have done? Will they congratulate us? We did not pull the trigger without the barrel of an enemy gun being directly below our jaw, but what happens now? Because we lived, thousands have died.

We do what we can for now. With this knowledge, we can at least move forward with a more cautious step.

But I can't bury a city of living corpses. I don't know how to let this lie.


