---
layout: post-bad
title: The Spaghetti in the West
description: Luisa's Letter
---

"Luisa asked for me to add another segment in. She asked me to explain what Spaghetti was, then vanished for a few hours, then returned with this in hand. She insists it's for her new pen pal Xibaqua, and that it's his favorite genre."

The following excerpt is written in Draconic.

--------------------------------------------------

Leopaldon regretted having friends.

As he walked barefoot through the edges of the Pronn Fields, he could feel the squelch of moisture
squeeze out of the sponge-like mossy ground and between his stubby dwarven toes, the liquid barely
reaching his toenails but going just high enough to give the false sensation of his foot skin being
submerged entirely by the soft ground. Each step chilled him, despite the normally humid temperature,
likely because it was not only his feet that were lacking any form of cover.

“Hello,” he yelled out, the tree-like fungi in the dark grove acting as as a form of natural acoustic
absorption and making his voice sound more flat than usual. “Is anyone there? I’d like to make a
bargain!”

He felt exposed shouting out to an area where he knew not what lurked, but did so anyways; it was a
decent distraction from his own actual exposure, if nothing else. But there was no response to his pleas.
After almost a full half hour in the woods, there was still no response. He cursed.

Gretchen, the fool, suggested that there was a god-like being in the mushroom forest that prioritized
natural qualities and may take pity on bastards stuck in these wastelands, and Leapaldon was just
desperate enough and equally a fool to give it a shot. But there was no being there ready to ease his
worries or provide an exit, just himself in the gloomy mycelium forest in complete nudity.

Leopaldon kicked a smaller mushroom that went up to his waist and cursed again when it proved more
sturdy than expected. He imagined the mushroom instead flew through the air and thought of how
satisfying that would be if he reenacted that with Gretchen’s head when he returned.

Mushrooms. Mushrooms, mushrooms, mushrooms. Leopaldon resisted the urge to kick another one.
He was so damn sick of mushrooms. Being separated from his family in Polovora due to the lesser
decay and damned sun was bad enough, but he could stand that. He missed Betty dearly, but god knows
he needed a break from his mother-in-law Susan and those seemed to balance each other out; if he
heard another lecture about not being jovial enough it would be too soon. Who lectures a dwarf
supporting his family about how he enjoys the meals he financially provides, anyways? But, god, the
food! How he missed the meals that accompanied those admonitions. The land of Pthumeria certainly
knew how to make cuisine indulgent. In contrast, the dinners here he could hardly stand; it was all
fungi. He was pretty sure he was made of the things by now with the sheer amount he had endured in
his digestive system.

“Damn it all!” he screamed into the faux trees, “if I can’t get out of here can I get at least one meal that
doesn’t have these fucking mushrooms?”

His screams alerted creatures above him; what was pitch-black canopies above were now littered with
luminescent eyes, which then quickly scattered with the bizarre pattering sound of claws against a
rubber-like surface. Then once again nothing at all, other than the already subtle glow of the tree-like
mycelium surrounding him.

He turned around, determining the complete futility of his already far-fetched efforts, and started his
trek back to the sorry excuse of a town he now resided in. After taking two steps, Leopaldon
immediately face-planted into the sticky ground. Attempting, and failing, to wipe the ground residue
off of his naked torso, he glared toward the spot that was the source of his stumble but his anger
immediately left.

Sitting on the ground was two simple cast-iron pans with no distinguishing markings. One sat on top of
the other, flipped upside-down to act as a form of cover. Stumbling over it seemed to cause the top pan
to sit slightly ajar, allowing a cloud of steam to waft out. The smell made Leopaldon’s mouth water;
whatever it was, it wasn’t mushrooms and smelled edible.
He grabbed the handle of the top pan; despite being cast iron, the handle was warm but not too hot to
the touch. Removing it revealed something that looked somewhat like the congee material that we was
used to in the bowls of slop back at Eltreum, but this was a solidified mass rather than a liquid to sift
through. It was warped and weaved into knots and strands, interrupted by the occasional orb of
unidentified meat. Crushed tomatoes covered the surface, the juices following the crevices of the dough
like river beds.

Leopaldon didn’t hesitate. He couldn’t, even if he tried. What he saw in front of him was far too
tempting to resist, the scent of tomato and cooked meat too tantalizing. He ate by the handful, digging
his fingernails deep into the contents of the frying pan. The meat was some form of venison, fresh at
that. The “congee” was not congee at all, but had a light and almost fluffy and buttery texture. The
tomatoes were...well, tomatoes, but given he was limited in his options that fact alone was exhilarating.
Eventually his pace slowed as his stomach reached it’s limit. Leopaldon stared at the pan in
amazement, the tomato juices dripping down his chin. Despite his ravishment of the delicacy, the food
didn’t appear even remotely touched. The pan was still filled to the brim and looked the exact same as
when he first lifted the top pan. He grabbed another handful and watched as the meal slowly grew and
stitched itself back into being fully formed.

He carefully lifted the second pan to once again cover the first and then started to carry his new bounty;
while heavy, it was nothing a dwarf couldn’t handle. He took great care to ensure the top pan covered
the bottom entirely to minimize the likelihood of the delicious smell escaping and reaching undesired
nostrils. The pan serving as unintentional coverage for his exposed nether regions, he slowly waddled
his way out of the mushroom forest and back to Eltreum.

The open landscape Leopaldon saw leaving the Pronn Fields would have been beautiful, if not so
depressing. The endless plains with wildflowers and high grass sifting in the wind only distracts so
much from the once grand stone roadways, now far too broken up for a carriage to properly traverse
without risking the loss of a wheel. Like proud monuments to a once grand empire, the occasional
stone pillar stood speckling the horizon, each noting a house, a trading post, perhaps even a city, that
once was and now would never be. Leopaldon noted the mushrooms went further into the savannah
than he last remembered and let the thought pass; he already had other more pressing concerns.

He followed the remnants of a trail to Eltreum and watched as the crumbling stone slowly led to what
could technically be described as a town. There were all the makings of a town: buildings together, a
town square, people. But the purple and yellow domes were hardly looking better than the roads and
the people were barely cognizant enough to care to fix it with all the blood ore being circulated around.
Leopaldon didn’t stoop to that level quite yet, but he was damn near trying it.

His current residence had no locks on the door, in fact they swung open at the slightest touch. This
served as a boon in his immediate predicament of having both his hands full. He used his shoulder to
make his way into the residence.

The lodging was adequate, if it were for only a single person. A small bed in the far right, next to a
simple wooden bar stool and circular table. There was a firepit near the entrance and some thin mats
laid on the floor to separate from the otherwise cold stone ground. Minimal storage lined the walls for
clothes and the occasional dish. The candles and lamp were not lit to conserve on wax. If well-
maintained, the room would actually be quite cozy. But it was not well-maintained, and Leopaldon had
no interest in repairing a home he had no intention of continuing to stay in.

A dark mass sat upon the bar stool and began to stir as Leopaldon entered. Despite the dark, Leopaldon
could see the shine of the polished steel start to rotate and the wooden connections underneath twist
and stretch. Two icy white orbs fixated onto Leopaldon, and the plated helm twisted into what
Leopaldon recognized as a smile after many years of observing his friend.

“Look what the cat dragged in,” the form snickered, “how was your prance through the wilderness in
the nude?”

“You knew that shit wouldn’t work,” Leopaldon grumbled.

The warforged cackled. “Well you never know, but need to keep you busy! That’s how hope works,
yeah? At least you got the closest thing to bath in weeks.”

“Fuck you, Gretchen.”

Leopaldon slammed the pan on the table and Gretchen tilted his plated mask to the side. “But perhaps
you didn’t come back empty-handed after all?”

Leopaldon grunted a negative, and lifted the top pan off. Gretchen slowly stood up from the stool,
raising to his full six feet, towering over the average sized dwarf. The wood underneath his plating
acted as muscles, flexing and contracting as he walked over to the pan.

“Why do you have spaghetti?”

“Oh, that’s what it is? Shit’s good.”

Gretchen shrugged. “If you say it is, I don’t eat. And how does this help you leave?”

“It doesn’t-”

“How did you find it? Surely you aren’t going to eat unknown food you found.”

Leopaldon slammed his hand on the table. “Damnit, Gretchen, it doesn’t matter! I already did and it’s
fine, and even if I wasn’t I’d do it again! If I’m gonna be stuck here at least I don’t have to eat anymore
mushrooms. You’re the reason why I’m even here in the first place, have some sympathy!”

“Sorry.”

Gretchen looked down, and Leopaldon almost felt the guilt rise out of his throat. “Look, uhh, you
aren’t, okay well you ARE the reason I’m here, but I gotta own my own shit you know? And what’s
done’s done. And this here spaghetti will help me deal with it. So we’re good.”

Gretchen raised his head. “We’re good?”

“Yeah, just stop pulling this shit on me! I was freezing out there.”

Gretchen smirked again. “Okay, but I still need to keep you on your toes sometimes. You get too
serious, your life’s too short for that.”

Leopaldon felt some warmth spread through his chest, but then focused back on the spaghetti. “I should
probably share this, yeah? Can’t be the only one sick of this mushroom shit. Who knows what that’s
already doing to us.”

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The town changed from an atmosphere of dejection to one of celebration, and Leopaldon was the hero
who saved everyone from terrible gastronomy.

Gretchen stayed in his home. This was typical for him; warforged were unusual to find in Phaneron and
tended to make others uneasy. Leopaldon was a unique case and was the only true friend he had after
being brought to this continent as a result. While we was initially mildly amused and pleased that
spirits were up, Gretchen was once again reminded by the nature of his form and left before his spirits
could sour and negatively impact what was supposed to be a happy moment.

Leopaldon’s complaints of gruel were understandable, but Gretchen also couldn’t help but be jealous of
the complaint as it proved he had a sensation that Gretchen would never experience. He could eat, sure,
but he would never understand the sheer satisfaction of a filling meal after a hard-day’s work, or relief
of a cold glass of ale after a full day of being parched. And he certainly wouldn’t want to eat from this
new meal when everyone else in the town would benefit so much more from it. Perhaps he would
sneak a bite in a day or two when the novelty wore off. His plan was to focus on his daily maintenance:
ensuring all hinges worked properly, removing any potential rust, check for any signs of breaks in the
wood. Once done we would call it a night.

That would have been what happened, if all went according to plan.

As Gretchen finished inspection of his upper thigh, he realized it was quiet. While he enjoyed pranking
Leopaldon to pass the time, he didn’t necessarily mind a bit of solitude here and there. The problem
was that not even twenty minutes earlier the town was obnoxiously loud in it’s merriment. Gretchen
walked out of his residence, not bothering to use his hands to open the swinging door.

Gretchen’s curiosity turned to concern as he started to process what he saw. The townsfolk were still
outside mingling, yet there was something… calculated about it. It seemed less of the standard
movements of people making decisions on a whim and more following determined routes. He saw
Talah at her normal gossip spot, but she was moving her lips despite there being nobody with her to
gossip with, and based on her lip movements it didn’t look like she was stringing full sentences
together. Harold stir the mushroom gruel over the cooking pot as he normally does, but he never
stopped to take a swig of his questionably made alcohol he had on his hip like he normally does. And
there was no reason to stir that gruel given the new food.

And Gretchen was wrong about the quiet; there was not full silence at all. While quiet, there were two
distinct hums. One slightly higher pitch, one slightly lower pitch, and the swap between the two was
not in a pattern Gretchen could immediately recognize.

Leopaldon sat next to Harold, bounty of spaghetti pan still in hand.

“How are the festivities?” Gretchen asked with a smirk he didn’t feel.

Instead of a response, Leopaldon raised the spaghetti pan in offering.

“No thank you. Are you good?”

Leopaldon tilted his head and raised the spaghetti pan once more.

“I said no thank you.” Gretchen’s smirk dropped entirely. “Actually, let me take that from you for a bit,
we should hold off for a while. There’s something I need to talk to you about.” Gretchen reached for
the spaghetti pan, but this time Leopaldon put the pan down on the ground behind him.

Then Leopaldon smiled.

In the four months that Leopaldon had been stuck in Eltreum due to visiting Gretchen directly before
the lesser decay getting out of hand, Gretchen grew to understand his friend better than he ever had
before. He saw him joke, dance, throw as much banter back as Gretchen gave him. But Leopaldon was
not a dwarf who smiled. He could be on cloud nine, but a grin would never appear on his face. Not
because he fought the urge to, but that expression never came to him naturally; that was simply how he
was. Leopaldon would often joke that Gretchen could smirk enough for the both of them.

Before Gretchen had a chance to respond, the two-pitched sounds changed pattern and Leopaldon
charged Gretchen.

Leopaldon’s right fist arced through the air where Gretchen’s torso would have been, but he stepped
back out of pure reflex.

“Leopaldon, it’s me!” he tried.

Leopaldon followed up with his left fist, and Gretchen ducked. He reached for his dagger at his waist:
empty. He left it in the home. Why would he arm himself in a town as dull as this one? It wouldn’t
disadvantage him; he was made to handle inopportune situations in the Last War before being brought
to Phaneron, after all. An emotionless war-machine past he hoped to fully put behind him, but a past
that would serve him in cases like this one. But without the mild toxin in the dagger he had no good
way of ensuring his friend’s safety by putting him to sleep.

Leopaldon threw a right hook once more, and this time Gretchen knocked it aside with his left arm,
temporarily throwing Leopaldon off-balance. He stepped forward low to the ground and landed an
uppercut to the jaw. But instead of Leopaldon losing focus he hardly reacted, and surprised Gretchen
with a swift roundhouse kick directly into the side of his knee. He heard a crack.

“Leopaldon, talk to me!”

Gretchen’s pleas were useless; Leopaldon didn’t react to anything he said in the slightest. It was as if he
was some decision was made and Leopaldon was following it to the letter.

Leopaldon followed the roundhouse kick up with a back kick but this time Gretchen was ready. He
caught Leopaldon’s foot and twisted it to force Leopadon to fall to the ground. Learning from last time
Gretchen didn’t wait to see if he was stunned, he immediately jumped forward and stomped his foot on
Leopaldon’s torso. After the first stomp Leopaldon rolled out of reach and stood back up, arms raised.

The noises coming from Leopaldon were starting to change, though. After a few attempts to talk him
down words were starting to come from him again, but they sounded artificial and slow.

“De-de-deactivate,” said Leopaldon and Gretchen’s hope turned to ash. He did not know who this was,
but there was no trace of his friend here anymore. He would not attempt to talk with him any further.
Leopaldon surged forward with a fury of jabs which Gretchen dodged back and forth. Gretchen caught
both is arms, but Leopaldon used the opportunity to land a front kick to the same knee as before. He
heard another crack, and this time felt it buckle. Gretchen responded by headbutting Leopaldon,
knowing fully well his metallic head would fare better than Leopaldon’s flesh.

He dropped to the ground and Gretchen limped away attempting to add distance, but Leopaldon rose
back up within minutes and rushed forward. Gretchen kept limping, searching his surroundings to help
in any way with his predicament.

Leopaldon charged, ready to stomp Gretchen’s torso the same way he was stomped earlier, but
Gretchen slammed his head with faded purple stone, a piece of one of the crumbled grand ceilings of
the town. He fell once more. Blood pooled out of the side of his head.

“De-de-defective” Leopaldon said and picked up the same stone that Gretchen dropped, but this time
hit himself with it. Over, and over, and over again.

“What are you doing,” Gretchen managed, starting to crawl over to Leopaldon.

Leopaldon did not answer, and kept hitting his head with the stone. He stopped, eventually, before
Gretchen made it to him. Then Leopaldon became limp.

Gretchen hardly had time to process what he observed before heard footsteps and whirled around while
sitting on the ground, fists in the air, to see Harold approach him. “Don’t come closer or I’ll do to you
what I did to him!” he roared.

Harold immediately raised his hands far above his head. “Stop, stop, stop, stop!”

“That’s my line,” Gretchen growled, “what happened to everyone? What the hell happened to
Leopaldon?”

“We spread,” Harold responded quickly, “we multiply, we continue. We did not you you were your
own. They chose to join, we did not know.”

“What are you talking about?”

Harold pointed and Gretchen followed the direction toward the pan of spaghetti. He crawled over and
lifted the lid. What was once containing a delicacy was now completely full of fresh, uncooked
bioluminescent mushrooms, the brightest ones that Gretchen had ever seen. They had a scent so strong
he almost gagged.

“You tricked them. You tricked them all.”

Gretchen spat toward Harold and Harold shook his head vigorously. “No trick. Trade. Agreement. We
reuse what’s left behind, do not take. He wanted taste. Thought that was reason for not letting spread
before. For cutting us near town. Thought it was agreement. We spread. Others let us spread.”

Gretchen forced himself up, lifting the body of his old friend. He ignored the pain spiking through his
leg. “Don’t touch me, don’t go near me, you understand? I do not agree, get it?”

Harold nodded emphatically. “Yes, yes, yes, yes.”

Gretchen started his slow and painful walk south. He knew he needed to move immediately before he
let the reality of what happened to his friend sink in fully and let himself fall to despair. In a feeble
attempt to make some good out of the situation, Gretchen realized that at least nobody would be
suffering in Eltreum anymore. After briefly considering walking toward the lesser decay, he quickly
decided to pivot toward the damned sun instead. Going crazy was not exactly a concern of his anymore
and anything he could do to get his friend home to his wife we was willing to do.

He walked under a scarlet sky from the sunset. There was no clouds to break up the blood red haze,
only the black obelisk cutting through as he took one single, painful step at a time to bridge the gap.
The remnants of the once great western civilization littered the expanse but that hardly mattered to
Gretchen; as far as he was concerned, his world had already collapsed so the scenery may as well
match.