---
layout: post-grem
title: Eletrium, Polyvora, and Back Again?
description: A series of explanations and events
---
The following is written in a looping, flowery, illegible Elvish script


From the Temporary Desk of Gremlina Artemisia
Date Unknown; Eletrium, Polyvora, and Back Again?


Dearest and most beloved diary, 


Another unusual, albeit more beguiling, day amongst a tremendous assortment of unusual days. While acquiring the good graces of the locals of Eletrium for information, a gentleperson of the most intriguing fashions offered a tantalizing invitation to perform in Polyvora. I accepted, with plans to bring along my fellow travelers. Unfortunately, in this case, I had overlooked the beauty of Prudence for the glittering charms of Vanity; being whisked away to the capital post-haste. 


The Tanggal Demons' lair was a confection of gold filligery, containing a vast dormitory of sundry artists. The keeper of this dormitory, Calcin, also happened to be the grandfather of the one who whisked me away, Adora. I felt a dizzying combination of ill-ease and intrigue, the dormitory was dead-quiet. One of the domiciles was occupied by a composer marked and filled with dismay. While looking for the source of trouble, wishing the same fate would not befall me, I did learn that the artists were governed by a system of sponsorship. This beleaguered musician, Winslow, had been unsuccessful in charming the ear of a benefactor and was as a result full of woe. He became quite attached to my spying arachnid familiar, taking the little creature for a muse (I did also relay some musical advice to him through this guise).


Feeling pleased with my good deed, I was shown to my dormitory. There were troubling signs of the rooms prior occupants, having been marked for death thrice and subsequently disposed of. I meditated upon this and other goings on during my trance, which was interrupted in the early hours of the morn. Some repository of great import had been destroyed in Eletrium, news that grieved both Calcin and Adora. I do fear that my compatriots may have been involved...


Auditions for sponsors began in the morning, I was supplied with the most dapper of fashions. Ensuring that my lute and magical items from my Patron were secure and in-tow; I sent my tiny comrade to awake the apparently sleepless Winslow ahead of the performance. At breakfast, there was a trio of jovial Gnome tumblers. Very delightful, colleges of wizardry must be very dreary places. 


The auditions were, I will admit, intoxicating. The audience of vampires was surprisingly receptive to limericks, I supposed humor remains whether a mortal in the tavern or an immortal in the theatre. Given the wounding news overheard that morn, a plaintive and bittersweet tune was in order. The applause was overpowering. However, the yeti's paw did curl upon receiving summons from the Tanggal patriarch, Axinal. 


The Patriarch's office was a vast library, including a view of Polyvora. Upon the doors to the main chambers opening I was flabbergasted to see that my Patron was the one opening the door. The Patriarch, Axinal, and Halfdane were engaged in a game of God's Chess, a four-way game of control. Axinal explained that the Tanggal are sustained by both the blood of the flesh and soul, collectors of as many fine works as they can get their hands on. The aged vampire entreated me to stay and create works for him. My heart and mind were torn asunder with indecision. Wisdom advised that I refuse, but Cleverness beckoned that perhaps some subterfuge scheme was afoot and I would have opportunity to perform for such adoration again. Through the tumbling words I did cry out, 'I have a son' to buy some sympathy for myself to leave. This is patently untrue. Truly some of my worst work in the art of gamesmanship. I did accept the offer to stay, with plans to abscond when the opportunity arose. 


Upon this, my Patron revealed that I was in his service to Axinal. Their amicable deliberation quickly soured to disagreement and fisticuffs. Halfdane cut a portal in space for me to flee, and not a moment too soon. Axinal's hand gruesomely joined me for the journey.


I do not doubt my Patron's abilities, however, I am troubled not knowing the outcome of the fight. I will need to consult with him soon. My cleverness may be catching up to me quicker than I thought, and I have pacts that I must fulfill.