---
layout: post
title: Next Up
description: What will happen next session?
---

Jimmy went hunting early in the morning and caught one of the squirrels that Iris carries around with her. It's meat makes for a delicious bacon.

We chatted with him a while and learned his side of things. Evidentally he'd joined up with the Mugger's Guild thinking they were a collectibles group (he has a prized ceramic mug), and was dissapointed to find out otherwise. He and Jasper seem to have left the Rust Knights since the last time we spoke. He seems to be looking for a bit of peace around here, though his brother seems to be looking for trouble.

And on that note, it seems that the siblings have an interesting relationship. Jimmy arrived in this realm first, and was the younger sibling, but Jasper was also recruited and transported into this realm, and now the two are drastically different ages. It seems either time within this realm moves slower in comparison to other realms, or their home realm moves faster.

I was warned about such a descrepincy before I made my first leap between realms, though truthfully I've never gone back to any realm I've visited to verify that. I don't really want to dwell on it much if I'm being honest. The thought that my siblings back home could be old or dead by the time I return... it's not the best thing to think about. I figured they now think that I've died in the war, and I never really thought to return home or give them any crumbs to explain where I've gone and who I've become. Honestly, writing it out just now it seems cruel, but I hope they never find this journal or learn my pseudonym. I feel for Jimmy and Jasper though. Jimmy seems to want to go home.

We briefly thought to send them up north to Riawat, but... last we saw these two they were hunting lightless. As much as I wanted to trust them, I didn't want to damn a safehaven on the odds that the unconscious brother could mind his manners. We ended up taking a poll on potentially giving these two access to the "Tear in Reality", and sending them home. Dedrik and Grem voted against the measure though, and Luisa and Noggin abstained from the vote. I gave the Tear to Dedrik afterwards, since he seemed to most intent on making his way home. I can't say I hold them in high regards after the vote, but at the end of the day this group is temporary. We'll part ways in our own time, and I should be grateful for the help and guidance these people have given me so far.

I must admit though, being around Jimmy has reminded me of what it's like to talk with normal... humans. It's been a while since I've encountered just... another ordinary man out on the trail. I think I've come a ways in not being overwhelmed by the fantastical people and places I've seen, but there's something comforting in a bit of the mundane.

We ended up talking with Jimmy for a while about our plans ahead, and decided the best route forward would be heading to the Gutter by the plantation. He said it was not an unwelcoming place, which is about as good as we've gotten so far on our travels.